might get a little more dark
unfortunately I bring the darkness as an
attorney and I wanted there are a couple
things you know certainly very
enthusiastic about blockchain
cryptocurrency generally from a legal
perspective I have a law and economics
background and of course with that comes
the libertarian slant to things my
background is I've been practicing law
for little over 20 years I've been
teaching engineers since 2003 and I
teach them about legal issues I've been
a volunteer attorney for artists for
Washington area lawyers for the Arts for
almost as long as that and so okay well
thanks so my interests always have been
and I don't know if any of you had
professors like this but I had a
professor when I was 19 years old and I
just wanted to pass his class that was
all I was concerned about and you know
last day of class were getting ready to
prepare for finals and he said well you
know you realize you have an obligation
to teach others once you leave this this
program it's like I'm 19 I don't need
that extra burden I just want to pass
your class and so every time I when I
look at things and I think about how you
know am i providing any additional
knowledge am i providing some education
to people and so while I've been doing
this I'm also a co-host on the
blockchain
I don't know if any of you who listen so
my co-host is as a producer DJJ scrilla
I'm sure he'll be very upset if I don't
mention his name and we've been talking
about this and we're trying to engage
and educate artists in the technology
both of us have had a history I was a
big supporter of mp3 when I first was
coming out a lot of the artists that I
knew musicians that I knew were making
money off of mp3.com and that was the
largest amount of money they made from
Benny's thing like streaming since and
it got shut down
but I've been looking for a kind of a
Holy Grail to to redeem myself because
in some respects a lot of them have have
not done as well with digital music as
had been hoped for so I was really
looking for this technology to to help
with with that because I do advise I
asked as I prepare for the class
tomorrow I looked at basically Terms of
Use in terms of service that are related
to blockchain technology services and I
was dismayed they're not with with the
things that I was reading because what
you look at nobody reads the Terms of
Service and then and nobody reads the
Terms of Use whenever you log into
anything whenever you download an app
nobody reads them and fortunately you're
you have agreed to them if you've
downloaded them for the most part you
have agreed to them I saw one that just
by virtue of being on their site you've
agreed to this these draconian terms
that I have not seen since the early
2000s so there are things out there I
don't know if they're copying it from
these you know they're going to Internet
Archive and down going the Wayback
Machine and getting things that would
are no longer even legal
but so it's gonna it hopefully you know
you'll you'll get the gist of this at
the beginning of the year these are the
things I was thinking about in fact I
wrote a post strategic conversion and
for the purpose of artist or TV
conversion from Fiat and established
currencies to an economic rewards system
to cryptocurrency and related digital
assets that's where I was really
thinking that artists could could go
long term contracts because a lot of the
discussion for artists in terms of the
rarity and tokens is how can artists
make money beyond the first sale
how can real T's be earned in the
secondary market and in in Europe there
are methods of doing that for visual art
for fine art so it was actually very
exciting to me to see can this be
accomplished with digital art or digital
native art as well as traditional art
that in the United States we don't have
that except in very California has a
has laws related to the subsequent sales
where the artist can earn royalties but
it's a very discrete circumstance the
same thing in New York very special
circumstances so the US doesn't have
that and this was another thing I was
hoping well maybe this will be a way for
the United States to get on board with
what's going on in other parts of the
world where the value of artistic works
is reflected in in how they're treated
legally so long term contracts I was
thinking going you know royalties into
the future contract terms generally I
mean I'm as guilty of this as anyone is
when you see a good contract you will
try to copy as much as you can from it
to make sure because it's been tested if
it's been litigated you know whether
it's good or not you know whether it's
successful so why mess with success the
problem is of course that a lot of the
things that people are copying are 20 30
years old things have changed and their
words are archaic and of course
attorneys are always accused of of using
words that nobody understands but at
least you can look it up in a dictionary
you can look up the words that are in in
a contract and then IP laws have to get
with the program the United States as it
is attacked often for the the
intellectual property laws but they and
they need to change because they've been
avoiding in the United States has a bit
avoiding electronic data with regard to
intellectual property for at least four
years and probably there are people here
who can tell me longer than that but
they keep putting it off keep putting it
off and trying to push digital art or
things related to digital assets into
these frameworks that are no longer
large enough for them so that's the
other thing and then the fifth thing
recognition of digital assets that's
personal property now for those of you
who download music you have a license to
the music you do not own anything but if
you bought a CD you don't you still only
have a license to the music but you
actually owned the physical CD so you
are allowed to sell that CD and the
copyright the person who has a copyright
to any of the music cannot sue you for
that okay but if you only license your
download from Apple as an example right
toons you can't sell it to anyone else
because you only have a license and if
you if anybody was reading terms and
conditions they would know that there
are certain things they can and cannot
do with that so this is where I was
thinking at the beginning of 2018 I
think the creative world is on the verge
of significant change with
cryptocurrency and related technology
and platforms and I'll confiscate eeen
and that it still could be true or you
know only halfway through but what I'm
thinking now is dealing with crypto
asset access and education because I
work with with artists they're usually
folks who cannot afford an attorney and
I recognize my privilege every day I
grew up in Seattle we had access to
computers the Seattle itself was pretty
progressive in that way and so I grew up
with those things I went to college I
had access to new University computers
so I learned how to do programming
because I had access to certain things
and it's when you talk to folks that
have not had that access then you then
you realize okay it's one thing to
understand how mp3 works and it's one
thing to understand how some of these
things work but blockchain is a next
level abstraction and then the education
part of it is something I'm particularly
interested in so we've already talked
about Thomas Jefferson this is the
advertisement with regard to what we are
what we're doing here in the United
States we declare these truths to be
self-evident this this photo is from a
recent as an exhibit in Washington DC
and the artists on the front you see
Thomas Jefferson and behind him is a
woman whose people are saying is
representing the Sally Hemings with
Sally Hemings with whom he had several
children it's actually a pretty stunning
piece because it's leather and this is a
I thought that there were maybe five or
six pieces but this was a this is an
amazing exhibit and if you have a chance
I would recommend you go see it
this over here is Thomas Jefferson's
math so Thomas Jefferson was trying to
explain how you make a determination
about who is a slave and it's based on
the legal status of the mother so the
property status of the mom determined
whether or not the children were going
to be slaves he compared the these
family relationships to the sheep that
he bred so he did a one-to-one
comparison and was ultimately able to
say oh and by the you know 16th
iteration it was as if you art he
started out with two different types of
sheep and by the sixteenth iteration of
this sheep it was actually this the
first sheep it was a merino sheep so
this is how he explained these are his
own family when you think about this
Sally Hemings was related to his wife
biologically related to his wife so it
was it's a stunning piece of history
this know Thomas Jefferson lived in
Virginia most of the US presidents were
from Virginia and so this is the Revised
Code so he wrote this letter March 4th
1815 to Frances gray to explain how
slavery would be logically and
mathematically permitted in the in the
Commonwealth of Virginia starting in
1819 which was this code in the
Commonwealth of Virginia though you have
to realize too that this was not the
case before 1819 in the Commonwealth of
Virginia it was an unlawful assembly
when meetings were held to teach reading
and writing to where slaves mulatos or
free Negroes mixed so before then that
was not illegal okay
first image is as I said as a portrait
painted by Titus kaffir its from the
insane exhibit at National Portrait
Gallery second image is his exercies of
his letter it was very convivial is very
very light-hearted generally letter and
the third is a revised code so that and
actually this exhibit
as well as preparing for the the program
tomorrow made me think of these these
connections because because this is such
a stunning exhibit I started out in one
direction when I was going to his
presentation and turn into a completely
different thing so and this is
continuation of Thomas Jefferson's
advertisement they are endowed by their
creator with certain inalienable rights
and among these are life liberty and the
pursuit of happiness as most of you know
the concluding statements and what I say
in my classes is with regard to the
Declaration of Independence is it talks
about those things you can't get rid of
the government cannot take these things
away so these are inalienable you cannot
contract them away you're born with them
but of course he helped draft a
constitution that removed some of those
very rights and he was also since he was
author of both he had you know certain
insight information with regard to the
content so ideas turn into words and
words into law I mean there's this is
this is the the basis of so many things
it took a civil war in the United States
two amendments to the Constitution to
begin undoing the effects of the legal
basis for slavery in the United States
it took almost a hundred years to make
it okay for therefore children of
different races to be taught in the same
school and I have a footnote here
because I had a recollection of this but
it's it was even worse than I remembered
Mississippi didn't officially ratify the
13th amendment abolishing slavery until
February 7th 2013 so now if before you
think well could they actually you know
have slaves and they're no because the
federal law supersedes anything that
Alabama that Mississippi would have
tried to do but still you know and it
took actually immigrants presented the
proposition immigrants the United States
who were now American citizens that this
should be ratified in 1954 the US
Supreme Court found in the Brown versus
Board of Education that state laws
establishing separate school based on
race were unconstitutional so
again that's the Civil War ended in 1865
this it took a really long time for
things to change so we have a similar
situation now ideas turn into code code
into laws because we're talking when
people are talking about code is log
well we have ancient ancient code is law
with regard to math that Thomas
Jefferson put together so I want to you
know appeal that to take care that the
idea is embedded into code don't result
in legal basis to create some illiteracy
on the part of people don't have that
have access to that information because
we are a very privileged group here and
when I'm trying to explain terms and
conditions to artists and because I
that's part of what I do when I'm trying
to advise them they're interested in
going into this space I don't have
sufficient information to give them all
that they would need to know because the
contracts are different the code and the
advertisement rarely match up whatever
is in the white paper and the code and
the advertisement they are not all
aligned so I never am able to present a
a full and complete picture to people
about what is going to happen if they
engage in this activity so it's been
it's it's been very it's been very
challenging to to explain it other than
it's going to be awesome you know it
will end but I am trying to encourage
them to get involved and have these
conversations for artists to get
involved because don't sit back and
think people are looking out for you you
know that that's not the that's not the
best approach and this is kind of a
contemporary you know he's a well-known
abolitionist but he was around and after
Thomas Jefferson died but he's actually
I've been reading a lot more of Ralph
Waldo Emerson recently but he made a
good point and this law is only a
memorandum and even then this time we
see that when we have executive orders
eliminating decades of negotiation on on
laws and somebody with a couple
paragraphs can decide well we're not
going to follow that law anymore it's
it's even more true now than it probably
ever has been and that it's a memo it is
a way of putting in writing how we feel
right now about whether legal
consequences of things and as attorneys
we spend a lot of our time looking back
to justify your current states with
regard to legal analysis we have
precedent we look and we want to make
sure that there is a solid line between
our position and the past and and
previously decided cases and that's
that's what we do otherwise nobody if if
I said well this is how I feel today
nobody would want to pay attention if
you think that lawyer says it's
certainly not a judge because you you
want if you're gonna take risk at least
have known risk you don't want to have
to be subjected to a whim of a judge
even though people are this in the last
sentence the statute stands there to say
yesterday we were agreed so and so but
how you feel ye this article today and I
think that's another powerful
opportunity here with with blockchain is
we can't there are ways that things can
be improved and reflect how we feel
right now in terms of determining what's
what's important and so there there is a
real opportunity in in my mind as long
as it's inclusive and taken into
consideration but the people who are
gonna be affected because this situation
we're certainly with Thomas Jefferson
went on you know it was a it was two
almost two hundred years for him for
just is his determinations and a few
paragraphs and so this was kind of an
interesting thing too I went to a frame
shop basically an art gallery flip slash
frame shop slash frame shop slash
African artifacts place and I saw this
these images they were all maybe this
high and they were almost identical of
it was supposed to be they they didn't
say that they were reproductions of
artifacts they were all sold for exactly
the same price of $250 each but I
couldn't tell if they were actually made
where they were made there was no
provenance with regard to these these
things at all so I started looking into
them and there was a book that that
referenced an art book that referenced
these particular figures and they
identified them as having particular
characteristics so they were collected
in various sects well when people would
travel particularly there were German
explorers that went and collected some
of these specimens and brought them back
and there are a number of museums around
the world now but this is this this
figure represents a deity it's supposed
to help villagers and individuals by the
act of actually nailing a putting a nail
into the into the wooden body is
supposed to be a contract between the
individual or the village or the village
itself and the deity and the deity and
these things are done publicly for the
most part that this act of nailing the
nail into the through the body as a as a
public avenge and so everyone in the
village knows about it there are
apparently private ones to wear these
little private ceremonies would take
place in which case nobody knew what the
terms were of the contract but the
village knew the terms of the contracts
there was a an oral history of what was
going on in the village in each one and
these nails represent those particular
things and the stories were told with
regard to those things but it was very
unique to the village each each each
figure would be represented in in
different villages they had different
meanings for each village that was was
using this figure so it was really
interesting to me I said well is this
like what understanding contracts means
that as long as everybody agrees to the
terms that's the important thing
all right everybody understands it
everybody agrees to it that's and you
want to be able to enforce that so this
is a a painting watercolor painting and
I
started reading other stories behind the
figures and and it that they appeared in
the in the 1600s when people started
recording them and seeing them and and I
wonder and there was some discussion
about whether it was tied to the slave
trade that in fact these figures were
supposed to protect the villages from
slave traders this particular figure is
called the thief finder is is the
meaning of the words for this particular
figure so it was it art or is it an OG
smart contract how is it how is it
similar only the villagers or
individuals know the terms the terms are
only known and understood by the members
of that group the contract terms are
activated by specific action and words
in fact in the belly there they put in
particular elements that reflect the
terms of the agreement and there they
have different attributes there's
usually a mirror put in there to reflect
back it's a very it's really fascinating
I I put a website before if you want to
check it out
okay tract terms are activated by
specific action and words content is
lost when the figure is removed from its
location and that is somewhat the case
with some blockchains is that context is
everything it won't work for instance a
Bitcoin blockchain won't work in this
area and there this context sensitive
they can be public or private contract
enforcement and is witnessed and
enforced by the community
it wouldn't work I mean part of the
belief and there's certainly an element
of belief with this community wouldn't
work unless it was witnessed and forced
by the community and then I found an
Oakland artist an educator
Karen who has two pieces inspired by
similar figures called
techno qc1 and techno kc2 and its she
has in the belly
iPhones and she has electronic devices
in the belly of the figure
so one thing that I think is part it
might be some of the problem is clients
aren't challenging attorneys enough we
will tend to use what works because we
use what we understand and so too for
those of you who are trying to figure
out you know well what do I even what do
I talk to attorney about or because I do
think there's a place for attorneys in
this world that challenge them and ask
the right ask the right questions and
lawyers should do the same ask questions
about what is what is it that you are
trying to accomplish in your terms of
use Terms of Service the things that
you're trying to accomplish with your
code and then they can help you design a
method or at least a making even a
business plan that fits within that that
framework we aren't at the point yet
where you know and all the law is is
code and that's that's all
[Applause]